# Model Card

This is the model card for the binary classification model, found at `model/classifier.pkl`.

## Model Details

This model was developed by Max Schlögel as part of the Machine Learning DevOps Engineer course on Udacity

Date of creation: 09/09/2023

Model version: v1

Model type: The model is a `sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier` used as a binary classifier.

## Intended Use

The intended use of this model is mainly the prediction of the income class, based on socio-economic features of a person.
The main access-point will be a FastAPI end-point, but the model can also be made accessible via the corresponding repository and
its included functionalities, or even just as a pickle file for other use cases.

## Training Data

All data used in this project is publicly available Census Bureau data.

The data is given in CSV-format and contains the following columns:
- age
- workclass
- fnlgt
- education
- education-num
- marital-status
- occupation
- relationship
- race
- sex
- capital-gain
- capital-loss
- hours-per-week
- native-country
- salary

where "salary" is the target variable that is being predicted.

Training-set size: 26048


## Evaluation Data

The evaluation dataset consists of the same data-format and is generated by splitting the original CSV-file into 
training and testing datasets with a split ratio of 4:1.

Test-set size: 6513

## Metrics

The metrics used for performance evaluation of the model are:

Precision, Recall and F-score

The performance on both the training and the test set:


|Dataset|Precision|Recall|F-score|
|-------|---------|------|-------|
|Train  |    0.696| 0.887|  0.780|
|Test   |    0.589| 0.780|  0.671|

## Ethical Considerations

This model should not be considered for determining future salaries of emplyees, as this could turn into a self fulfilling prophecy.
One needs to be careful not to let other implicitly present socio-economic features influence ones jugdement.

## Caveats and Recommendations

This models target variable is purely binary, so it is not able to differentiate well between different levels of income.
This recudes its helpfulness by a lot.

For a better understanding of the models performance, one should properly consider the models performance on slices of the data.
E.g. one could look at the models performance on both "Male" and "Female" subgroups of the data or if the model still performs equally 
well on the subgroups of educational level.

